[CIAPP-2213] Update testing and CI provider instructions (#11002)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/continuous_integration/setup_tests/junit_upload.md

## Installing the Datadog CI CLI

Install the [`datadog-ci`][2] CLI globally using `npm`:

{{< code-block lang="bash" >}}
npm install -g @datadog/datadog-ci
{{< /code-block >}}

## Uploading test reports

To upload your JUnit XML test reports to Datadog, run the following command, specifying the name of the service or library that was tested using the `--service` parameter, and one or more file paths to either the XML report files directly or directories containing them:

{{< code-block lang="bash" >}}
datadog-ci junit upload --service <service_name> <path> [<path> ...]
{{< /code-block >}}

You will need to specify a valid [Datadog API key][3] in the `DATADOG_API_KEY` environment variable, and the environment where tests were run (e.g. `local` when uploading results from a developer workstation, or `ci` when uploading them from a CI provider) in the `DD_ENV` environment variable. For example:

{{< code-block lang="bash" >}}

> DD_ENV=ci DATADOG_API_KEY=<api_key> datadog-ci junit upload --service my-api-service unit-tests/junit-reports e2e-tests/single-report.xml

Reviewer: This command line is too long for a 1080p screen. Maybe it would be better to split into different lines?

{{< /code-block >}}

## Additional configuration settings

This is the full list of options available when using the `datadog-ci junit upload` command:

`--service`
: Name of the service or library under test.<br/>
**Environment variable**: `DD_SERVICE`<br/>

> **Default**: (none)<br/>

Reviewer: Not sure if the default value is the literal `"(none)"` or if it is the literal `""`. If it really has no value, that surprises me because every other tracer does provide a value (e.g. `unnamed-java-app` in the Java tracer).

I was assuming that all the tracers were providing non-empty values because the UX would be bad with an empty value for the service. Is that the case? If that's not the case, maybe it is better to have an empty value everywhere?

Reviewer 2: yeah good catch. The service name (whether via `--service` or `DD_SERVICE`) is mandatory when uploading junit results via `datadog-ci`. There shouldn't be a default

Author: Fixed

## Installing the Datadog CI CLI

Install the [`datadog-ci`][2] CLI globally using `npm`:

{{< code-block lang="bash" >}}
npm install -g @datadog/datadog-ci
{{< /code-block >}}

## Uploading test reports

To upload your JUnit XML test reports to Datadog, run the following command, specifying the name of the service or library that was tested using the `--service` parameter, and one or more file paths to either the XML report files directly or directories containing them:

{{< code-block lang="bash" >}}
datadog-ci junit upload --service <service_name> <path> [<path> ...]
{{< /code-block >}}

You will need to specify a valid [Datadog API key][3] in the `DATADOG_API_KEY` environment variable, and the environment where tests were run (e.g. `local` when uploading results from a developer workstation, or `ci` when uploading them from a CI provider) in the `DD_ENV` environment variable. For example:

{{< code-block lang="bash" >}}
export DATADOG_API_KEY=a5f...ea170229

> export DD_ENV=ci

Reviewer 3: isn't this optional? at least I never set it on my tests

Author: It is optional but to avoid confusion and mixing local and CI test results that are not easily fixable later (i.e. requires deleting test services), we should put it on the "quickstart" instructions

datadog-ci junit upload --service my-api-service unit-tests/junit-reports e2e-tests/single-report.xml
{{< /code-block >}}

## Additional configuration settings

This is the full list of options available when using the `datadog-ci junit upload` command:

`--service`

> : Name of the service or library under test.<br/>

Reviewer 2: can we consider `--service` "additional"? It is mandatory and explained earlier

Author: Maybe "additional" is not the best title for the section, but I think it's good to include service and environment in this list even if they are explained earlier, just for completeness. Maybe we can use "Advanced configuration" or something like that.

**Environment variable**: `DD_SERVICE`<br/>
**Default**: (none)<br/>
**Example**: `my-api-service`

`--tags`
: Key-value pairs in the form `key:value` to be attached to all tests (the `--tags` parameter can be specified multiple times). When specifying tags using `DD_TAGS`, separate them using commas (e.g. `team:backend,priority:high`).
**Environment variable**: `DD_TAGS`<br/>
**Default**: (none)<br/>
**Example**: `team:backend`<br/>
**Note**: Tags specified using `--tags` and via the `DD_TAGS` environment variable are merged. If the same key appears in both `--tags` and `DD_TAGS`, the value in the environment variable `DD_TAGS` takes precedence.

`--max-concurrency`
: The number of concurrent uploads to the API.<br/>
**Default**: `20`

`--dry-run`

> : Runs the command without the final upload step. All other checks are performed.<br/>

Reviewer 3: @juan-fernandez does this actually do anything for junit upload? What does it print

Reviewer 2: the files to be uploaded. It's something from sourcemaps. We can remove it if we don't think it adds value

Author: I have rephrased this a bit.

      text: "Troubleshooting CI"
---

JUnit test report files are XML files that contain test execution information, such as test and suite names, pass/fail status, duration, and sometimes error logs. Although it was introduced by the [JUnit][4] testing framework, lots of other popular frameworks are able to output results using this format.

As an alternative to instrumenting your tests natively using Datadog tracers, which is the recommended option as it provides the most comprehensive test results, you can also upload JUnit XML test reports.

> Test results imported via JUnit XML reports will appear alongside tests reported via tracers. However, there are some limitations when using this method, such as the lack of distributed traces on integration tests or structured stacktraces. For this reason, only use this method if there is no native support for the language or testing framework being used.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Test results imported via JUnit XML reports appear alongside test data reported by tracers. However, there are some limitations when using this method, such as the lack of distributed traces on integration tests or structured stacktraces. For this reason, only use this method if there is no native support for the language or testing framework being used.
```

## Installing the Datadog CI CLI

Install the [`datadog-ci`][2] CLI globally using `npm`:

{{< code-block lang="bash" >}}
npm install -g @datadog/datadog-ci
{{< /code-block >}}

## Uploading test reports

To upload your JUnit XML test reports to Datadog, run the following command, specifying the name of the service or library that was tested using the `--service` parameter, and one or more file paths to either the XML report files directly or directories containing them:

{{< code-block lang="bash" >}}
datadog-ci junit upload --service <service_name> <path> [<path> ...]
{{< /code-block >}}

> You will need to specify a valid [Datadog API key][3] in the `DATADOG_API_KEY` environment variable, and the environment where tests were run for example, `local` when uploading results from a developer workstation, or `ci` when uploading them from a CI provider) in the `DD_ENV` environment variable. For example:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Specify a valid [Datadog API key][3] in the `DATADOG_API_KEY` environment variable, and the environment where tests were run for example, `local` when uploading results from a developer workstation, or `ci` when uploading them from a CI provider) in the `DD_ENV` environment variable. For example:
```

`--max-concurrency`
: The number of concurrent uploads to the API.<br/>
**Default**: `20`

`--dry-run`
: Runs the command without actually uploading the file to Datadog. All other checks are performed.<br/>
**Default**: `false`

Positional arguments
: The file paths or directories in which the JUnit XML reports are located. If you pass a directory, the CLI will look for all `.xml` files in it.

Additionally, the following environment variables are supported:

`DATADOG_API_KEY` (Required)
: [Datadog API key][3] used to authenticate the requests.<br/>
**Default**: (none)

`DD_ENV`
: The environment you want your test results to appear in.<br/>
**Default**: (none)<br/>
**Examples**: `local`, `ci`

<!-- TODO: uncomment this once we support any datacenter other than us1
`DATADOG_SITE`
: The Datadog site to upload results to.<br/>
**Default**: `datadoghq.com`<br/>
**Possible values**: `datadoghq.com`, `datadoghq.eu` or `us3.datadoghq.com`
-->

## Collecting repository and commit metadata

> The Datadog CI CLI will try to extract git repository and commit metadata from CI provider environment variables and from the local `.git` directory and attach it to test executions. In order to read this directory, the [`git`][1] binary is required.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Datadog CI CLI tries to extract git repository and commit metadata from CI provider environment variables and from the local `.git` directory and attach it to test executions. In order to read this directory, the [`git`][1] binary is required.
```
